# copycat-website-project

[Link to website](https://yuhongz9309.github.io/copycat-website-project/)

[Link to gDoc Plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sTmal23FFEzi2rzH6hmwQnEzw6We9TwN7RvFQQe3-Lc/edit?usp=sharing)


### Reflection:
I chose to mimic the DeltaMath website for the SEP Copycat Website Project. Working on this project had some fun and stressed moments, but overall, I was satisfied with the result. The website turned out to be as similar as the original website. The whole purpose of this project is to practice our skills and knowledge of HTML and CSS. In an addition, I also experienced what it is like to build a website from scratch. A lot of planning and work is put in to make a good-looking website. In this project, I was only required to make the main viewpoint of the website, therefore I was not required to make all the buttons work and other things that is beyond HTML and CSS.  
  
Before starting coding, I planned out what the code will be like and basically, broken the website into different sections. After I figure out the three main sections (Navigation, Content, and Footer), I would focus on working a specific section before moving forward. That is also the time that I plan for the things that I need to research on. After getting the planning done, I started coding and work on the HTML. Personally, working on the HTML first and then work on the CSS is a good habit because it will avoid a lot of confusion and annoyance.   
  
Trying to get the Navigation and the Footer look like the ones of the original website was straight forward. However, I encountered some problems with the content section. The content section contains the image and the login. Image and login were also straight-forward to mimic but getting it to the correct position was difficult. It requires the image to be side by side to the login, but since they are two different element and does not relative to each other, they would appear to be stacked (image on the top and then the login below it). First, I asked my classmates of how to fix their positioning and get them to their right place. They recommended me to use wrap the HTML code of the image and login with a ``<p>`` tag, so they would relate to each other. They also recommended to use ``position: absolute;``, and then use margin to move everything to the right place. However, this would only work on one screen size since the margin value is static. If the website is displayed on a small or larger screen size, the position of the image and the content would be off.  
   
In consideration of absolute positioning, I came up with an idea to solve this issue. Testing this on a different file, I made two divs who are having absolute positioning and a width of 50%. I made the color of one of the div blue and the other red. The blue div that would be on the left side would have a right margin of 50% and float left, while the red div that would be on the right side would have a left margin of 50% and float right. Using percentages here instead of a number would allow the size of these div to scale according to the width of the screen size. As a result, the blue div is next to the red div. When you resize the window size, the div is also resized. This means that no matter the size of the screen, the div would resize itself to only occupy a half of the screen. 
After testing and confirming that my idea works, I applied it to my project. The image would be on the left half while the login would be on the right half. Then, I use float right to image and float left to the login so it would be centered in relation to the page. Lastly, I applied some margin to correct the spacing. I preview the website and try to change the size of website to make sure the image and login are still in relation to the center.   
   
In the end, making this project had some fun and stressed moments. It was fun practicing my skills of HTML and CSS and experiencing what is it like to build a website. However, the problem that I encountered was annoying and dealing with it was stressful. After figuring out the solution, I felt relief. Because of this challenge, I learned something and now, I have a way to deal with these kinds of problems in the future.  
   
